JHeader version 0.1
Copyright (C) 2006 Matthew Baker
Email msb@safe-mail.net
Project URL: www.sourceforge.net/jheader

Released under the GNU General Public Licence.  See file LICENCE.  To use
this product in a closed-source product, please contact Matthew Baker on
the above email address for information about licensing.

DESCRIPTION

JHeader is a Java library for reading and editing EXIF and JFIF headers in
JPEG files.  It also comes with a command line tool and a GUI tool.

Features include:
   - Display and edit any recognized EXIF tag
   - Add and remove EXIF tags
   - Convert JFIF files to EXIF and vice versa
   - Create and extract thumbnails from EXIF and JFIF headers
   - View and edit JPEG file comments
   - A command line tool for performing some operations
   - A GUI tool and a useful JTable component for performing some operations

The library is designed to make it simple to display, in a moderately
attractive manner, all tags in a file without the programmer having to
know what they are called or what their types are.  Also, any EXIF tag
can be set from a string.  If the string cannot be parsed into the
tag's required type (for example trying to assign text to a numeric
tag), an exception is thrown.

The tags are moderately strongly typed: they are either Long, Double, String,
Rational, DateTimeTag, UndefinedTag or a subclass of EnumeratedTag.  It is
possible to convert between tag types where it makes sense to do so.  In
particular, every type can be converted to and from a String.

Numeric tags which can take a discrete set of enumerated values have
an associated type derived from the EnumeratedTag class.  It defines
the set of allowable values and allows the caller to list the
allowable values, both as numbers and as a more user-friendly string.
You don't have to use these classes - you can refer purely to the base
EnumeratedTag class or else just fetch and edit the tag as a Long.

REQUIREMENTS

JHeader is written in Java and requires version 1.5 to compile and run.  It
requires ant to compile.

BUILDING

JHeader is available as source and binary distributions.  If you don't want
to build, download the binary distribution.  To build, type

   ant dist

You can build the javadocs with

   ant javadoc

USAGE

There are some examples in the examples directory of the source distribution.
The command line tool, CJHeaderTool, and the GUI tool, JHeaderTool, are more
elaborate examples and illustrate most of the library's functionality.  The
javadocs (build them with ant javadoc) are quite detailed.

To see the command line usage for CJheaderTool, type

    java net.sourceforge.jheader.CJHeaderTool -help

The command line usage for JHeaderTool is

    java net.sourceforge.jheader.gui.JHeaderTool [jpeg-file]

or

    java -jar jheadertool-0.1.jar

TO DO

Support has been coded for a good deal more cameras than have been
tested.  The author only has access to a limited number of cameras.
It is likely, therefore, that there are bugs.  Please contact the
author if you find any.  Also please contact the author if you have
Makernote details on any camera that is not supported.

Matthew Baker
July 2006
